README.md, before:

d# NerfTurret
An automatic Nerf Turret.

This uses Pi4J to control GPIO on the Pi, see [http://pi4j.com/index.html](http://pi4j.com/index.html) for details, or 
the javadoc at [http://pi4j.com/apidocs/index.html](http://pi4j.com/apidocs/index.html) for info on how you program it.

Uses Restlet as a lightweight web server, see [https://restlet.com/open-source/](https://restlet.com/open-source/) for 
details, or the javadoc at [https://restlet.com/open-source/documentation/user-guide/2.3](https://restlet.com/open-source/documentation/user-guide/2.3) for info on how to use it.

## November 30, 2017
- Got the servos working using the Hummingbird robotics kit. The external power source was necessary for them to work.
- The Servos now contain the Hummingbird robot and issue movement commands to it via the ```setServoPosition(...)``` call.
- Modified the control sliders to use values from 0 to 255 to match the range of the servos, and made the tilt one larger
so it's easier to control.
- Added hummingbird Windows and hummingbird Raspberry Pi libraries.
- The Hummingbird won't run in headless mode for some reason, it is throwing an AWT X11 window exception, but you can fire up the
Pi and run it through it's UI. In the end we won't want to run this through the UI.

## November 28, 2017
- Since The Reslet Web Server Doesnt Support PHP files i uploaded them to my domain ```nmsnerfturret.tk``` we can host a simple apache2 server with php and phpmyadmin and mysql on the pi once its done
- Havent pushed code yet
- major web addition
- added user name and password system
- Uses Personal MySQL-Server Can Be Installed On PI With ```Sudo apt-get install mysql-server phpmyadmin```
- To Make A Account Goto Create Account/register And Enter Your Username And Password (Will Make Prettyer) and it will put your data into the table of users with a default rank of 0
- Rank 10 & Higher Can Use Sliders, Rank 50 & Higher May Use Admin Page ( Havent Done Yet )
- Once Youve made A A Account You Can you The ```Login Page``` And Enter  In Your user name And Password It Will Start A Session In php And create a cookie with your name and rank as a backup the cookie only lasts 5 minutes though
- To Get Your Rank Assigned Ask Someone With MYSQL/PHPMYADMIN database accsess

## November 23, 2017 
- Added Scripts to compile and run the code.
- Attempted to get the high powered servos directly on the Raspberry Pi GPIO pins with no luck. I think there is not 
enough current available from the Pi to run them. Will try using the Hummingbird boards we have, failing that we can buy 
a board for the Pi that is specifically designed to run servos. 


## November 16, 2017 #2
- Added A ```Landing Page``` Which Lets You Click Diffrent Buttons To Navigate to ```/control``` or ```/web/webcontrol```
- The old ```/web``` was moved to ```/web/webcontrol```
- Added Background To .HTML Files
- Also For Some Reason In Github Desktop it Says I Added A + Tags To The Beginning Of Most Lines idk Why?

## November 16, 2017

- Restlet Server now serves a web page that has simple slider controls for controlling a turret. Web page uses JavaScript 
and JQuery to create the sliders and collect input from them and send it to the control server.
- Added a ```/control``` resource to the server for getting the current turret position and setting it.

## November 8, 2017

- Added a simple web server using Restlet to serve REST resources that can eventually be used to control the turret 
remotely via the web. Added ```restlet```, ```gson``` and ```json``` jars the ```lib``` directory.
- We need a script to compile the java code on the Pi. Compiling Java is very cumbersome, if we had a full IDE on 
the Pi we could do it using that, but since we are coding on IntelliJ on Windows it needs to be recompiled on the 
Pi.  

To compile, from the project root directory run:
```
javac -cp ./lib/*:./src/main/java/* src/main/java/com/nerf/turret/ControlResrouce.java src/main/java/com/nerf/turret/NerfTurretServer.java 
``` 

And to run it, from the project root directory run:
```
sudo java -cp ./lib/*:./src/main/java/* com.nerf.turret.NerfTurretServer 
```

Ideally we'll compile in to a ```target``` directory next to our ```src``` directory.

## October 27, 2017

- Prototyped Servos and a simple turret that moves up, down, left and right.
- Servo object can be configured to have a GPIO pin and a position and has the functionality to move.
- Turret contains two servos and translates up, down, left, right commands in to movement values.

Commit message:

Added auto mode and a trigger servo.
- Turret can now move back and forth automatically or be used manually.
- Added a trigger servo.

README.md, after:

d# NerfTurret
An automatic Nerf Turret.

This uses Pi4J to control GPIO on the Pi, see [http://pi4j.com/index.html](http://pi4j.com/index.html) for details, or 
the javadoc at [http://pi4j.com/apidocs/index.html](http://pi4j.com/apidocs/index.html) for info on how you program it.

Uses Restlet as a lightweight web server, see [https://restlet.com/open-source/](https://restlet.com/open-source) for 
details, or the javadoc at [https://restlet.com/open-source/documentation/user-guide/2.3](https://restlet.com/open-source/documentation/user-guide/2.3) for info on how to use it.

## December 13, 2017
- The turret now scans back and forth in auto mode.
- Added a trigger servo and a corresponding button to ```control.html```.
- Pi now connects to our ```BlinkyBotNet``` network for control over wifi.


## November 30, 2017
- Got the servos working using the Hummingbird robotics kit. The external power source was necessary for them to work.
- The Servos now contain the Hummingbird robot and issue movement commands to it via the ```setServoPosition(...)``` call.
- Modified the control sliders to use values from 0 to 255 to match the range of the servos, and made the tilt one larger
so it's easier to control.
- Added hummingbird Windows and hummingbird Raspberry Pi libraries.
- The Hummingbird won't run in headless mode for some reason, it is throwing an AWT X11 window exception, but you can fire up the
Pi and run it through it's UI. In the end we won't want to run this through the UI.

## November 28, 2017
- Since The Reslet Web Server Doesnt Support PHP files i uploaded them to my domain ```nmsnerfturret.tk``` we can host a simple apache2 server with php and phpmyadmin and mysql on the pi once its done
- Havent pushed code yet
- major web addition
- added user name and password system
- Uses Personal MySQL-Server Can Be Installed On PI With ```Sudo apt-get install mysql-server phpmyadmin```
- To Make A Account Goto Create Account/register And Enter Your Username And Password (Will Make Prettyer) and it will put your data into the table of users with a default rank of 0
- Rank 10 & Higher Can Use Sliders, Rank 50 & Higher May Use Admin Page ( Havent Done Yet )
- Once Youve made A A Account You Can you The ```Login Page``` And Enter  In Your user name And Password It Will Start A Session In php And create a cookie with your name and rank as a backup the cookie only lasts 5 minutes though
- To Get Your Rank Assigned Ask Someone With MYSQL/PHPMYADMIN database accsess

## November 23, 2017 
- Added Scripts to compile and run the code.
- Attempted to get the high powered servos directly on the Raspberry Pi GPIO pins with no luck. I think there is not 
enough current available from the Pi to run them. Will try using the Hummingbird boards we have, failing that we can buy 
a board for the Pi that is specifically designed to run servos. 


## November 16, 2017 #2
- Added A ```Landing Page``` Which Lets You Click Diffrent Buttons To Navigate to ```/control``` or ```/web/webcontrol```
- The old ```/web``` was moved to ```/web/webcontrol```
- Added Background To .HTML Files
- Also For Some Reason In Github Desktop it Says I Added A + Tags To The Beginning Of Most Lines idk Why?

## November 16, 2017

- Restlet Server now serves a web page that has simple slider controls for controlling a turret. Web page uses JavaScript 
and JQuery to create the sliders and collect input from them and send it to the control server.
- Added a ```/control``` resource to the server for getting the current turret position and setting it.

## November 8, 2017

- Added a simple web server using Restlet to serve REST resources that can eventually be used to control the turret 
remotely via the web. Added ```restlet```, ```gson``` and ```json``` jars the ```lib``` directory.
- We need a script to compile the java code on the Pi. Compiling Java is very cumbersome, if we had a full IDE on 
the Pi we could do it using that, but since we are coding on IntelliJ on Windows it needs to be recompiled on the 
Pi.  

To compile, from the project root directory run:
```
javac -cp ./lib/*:./src/main/java/* src/main/java/com/nerf/turret/ControlResrouce.java src/main/java/com/nerf/turret/NerfTurretServer.java 
``` 

And to run it, from the project root directory run:
```
sudo java -cp ./lib/*:./src/main/java/* com.nerf.turret.NerfTurretServer 
```

Ideally we'll compile in to a ```target``` directory next to our ```src``` directory.

## October 27, 2017

- Prototyped Servos and a simple turret that moves up, down, left and right.
- Servo object can be configured to have a GPIO pin and a position and has the functionality to move.
- Turret contains two servos and translates up, down, left, right commands in to movement values.
